# Open-Source
In CIT 225, the main objective of this class is to learn about Linux, an open-source operating system. Before using Linux, the first two things we learned were the concept of open-source software and how the Free Source Movement came to be. Open-Source is a type of free software which allows people to modify its source code and redistribute it. This software became a topic of discussion in the 1980s and 1990s during the Free-Software Movement. The movement would lead to the development of many different types of open-source software. Knowing how free software came about and how the movement evolved gives a better understanding of Linux. 

Richard Stallman, the founder of the Free-Software movement, first became motivated to develop free software after attempting to correct a coding error. However, the company that owned the code prevented him from doing so. Due to this experience, Stallman believed that the software developers wanted to control the users and prevent them from sharing what they learned with others. Afterward, he started fighting for people’s rights to use software by founding the Free Software Foundation. In a presentation he gave on TED Talk, he stated that in 1983, he “would develop a completely free software operating system called GNU” (Introduction to Free Software 6:38-6:42). During the development of the GNU system, Stallman invited people to help him with their input. Among the people who helped in this project was Linus Torvalds, who would help complete the GNU system by creating the Linux kernel. This kernel would lead to the creation of the Linux system. While this project appeared to be successful, that does not mean that the movement did not have obstacles.

Like with all movements in history, the Free-Source Movement faced many obstacles in achieving its goal. In the documentary, *Revolution OS*, Stallman talked about how when they were developing GNU, he and his team discovered the software had many bugs that took a long time to fix. Another problem that they faced was gaining public and financial support for the use of open-source software. Since developing software can be expensive, Michael Tiemann thought that if they could start a business of their own by building “a model that could deliver two to four times the support… that would meet the test of whether or not people would buy” their software (Revolution OS 21:31-21:47). They soon founded Cygnus, the first company to support open-source software. While Cygnus successfully distributed free software to the people, they faced intense competition from other major software developing companies such as Microsoft, who had to lower their prices to ensure that consumers continued to buy from them. Despite all these difficulties, the movement persevered in its quest to make open-source software available for the public.

Overall, both the Free-Source Movement and Linux brought tremendous change to the computing world and software development. With this knowledge, I now have a better and more concise understanding of how these two concepts tie in with what we are learning today.
